W 10812334 apid apigov for ga bsj (#174)
mulesoft/docs-design-center: modules/ROOT/pages/design-create-publish-api-raml-editor.adoc

= Create an API Specification with the Text Editor
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can use API Designer's text editor to create API specifications directly in RAML 0.8, RAML 1.0, or OAS 2.0 or 3.0, and AsyncAPI 2.0. OAS and AsyncAPI API specifications can be created as JSON or YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use API Designer's text editor to create API specifications directly in RAML 0.8, RAML 1.0, OAS 2.0, OAS 3.0, and AsyncAPI 2.0. OAS and AsyncAPI API specifications can be created as JSON or YAML.
```

> You can use API Designer's text editor to create API specifications directly in RAML 0.8, RAML 1.0, or OAS 2.0 or 3.0, and AsyncAPI 2.0. OAS and AsyncAPI API specifications can be created as JSON or YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use API Designer's text editor to create API specifications directly in RAML 0.8, RAML 1.0, OAS 2.0, OAS 3.0, and AsyncAPI 2.0. OAS and AsyncAPI API specifications can be created as JSON or YAML files.
```

== Procedure

. On the *Projects* page in Design Center, click *Create new*.
. Select *New API Spec* to create a REST API or *New AsyncAPI* to create an AsyncAPI. 
. In the *New API Spec* or *New AsyncAPI* dialog, name your project.
+
You can change the name (but not the extension) later, if you want to.

> . If you are creating a REST API specification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To start creating a REST API specification:
```

.. Select the *I'm comfortable designing it on my own* option.
.. Choose either the RAML or OAS specification. 
+
API Designer creates the stubs of your API specification using the specification type and version you choose.
+

> By default API Designer creates a RAML 1.0 file. You can change the file to RAML 0.8 or OAS after the project is created. Projects for creating API specifications can contain a mix of RAML, OAS, and other types of files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, API Designer creates a RAML 1.0 file. You can change the file to RAML 0.8 or OAS after the project is created. Projects for creating API specifications can contain a mix of RAML, OAS, and other types of files.
```

+

> . If you are creating an AsyncAPI specification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To create an AsyncAPI specification:
```

> . If you are creating an AsyncAPI specification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To start creating an AsyncAPI specification:
```

+
* Select either YAML or JSON as the project language.

The text editor opens. 

The API Designer text editor is divided into panels:

* The left panel lists the files and dependencies in your project.
+
The stub specification file is listed and set as the root file of the project. You can change the name (but not the extension) of this file by clicking the overflow menu icon (image:manage-dependency-versions-design-center-018a5.png[width=0.75%,height=0.75%,title="Screenshot of the overflow menu icon"]) beside the specification name and selecting *Rename*.
+
The left panel also lists the file `exchange.json`, which is a file that contains metadata required by Anypoint Exchange at the time that you publish your project to Exchange. This file is read-only.
+
[TIP]
====

You can create more than one API specification or related file in a single project. Click the plus sign in the Files panel to create a new file.

If you do create more than one specification file, you must specify one of them as the root file of your project.

====
+

> For more information about adding Exchange dependencies, see "Adding Dependencies to an API-Specification Project", which is linked to from the *See also* section at the end of this topic.

Reviewer: I would just put the link here and not say "which is linked to from the *See also* section at the end of this topic." Consider removing the link from the See Also section, depending on whether it is needed for other contexts in the topic.

Author: Yes, they've done this throughout the doc. I think we can change this later.

* The middle panel displays the editor in which you create the API specification. Appearing in the editor when you create a project or start a new API specification are the first two lines of an API specification file, depending on which type of specification you select when you created the project. You can change these lines (as well as the file extension) if you want to switch from RAML to OAS or vice-versa.
* The right panel lists the types and resources that are in the API specification that is in the middle panel.
* The bottom panel expands to show any project errors. The *Project Errors* panel shows any functional errors for your API specifications and any conformance messages if you are using API Governance and the API specification you are editing has rulesets applied to it as dependencies. 

== The Editor

> While working in the editor, you can use a large number of commands to navigate through and manipulate the content of your API specification. Press F1 at any time to see a list of them. The list also displays keyboard shortcuts for most of the commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While working in the editor, you can use a large number of commands to navigate through and manipulate the content of your API specification. Press *F1* to see a list of these commands along with keyboard shortcuts for most of the commands.
```

You can also perform these tasks:

* *Import files and API fragments into your project* 
+

> You can import files, either separately or bundled in .zip files. The files can be on your computer or you can specify a URL for them if they are located online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import either separate files or files bundled in .zip files. The files can be on your computer or you can specify a URL for them if they are located online.
```

> You can import files, either separately or bundled in .zip files. The files can be on your computer or you can specify a URL for them if they are located online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import either separate files or files bundled in .zip files. The files can be on your computer or you can specify a URL for them if they are located online.
```

+
For more information about importing files and steps for how to import them, see "Import Files into an API Project", which is linked to from the *See also* section at the end of this topic.
+
For information about adding API fragments to your project, see "Add a RAML API Fragment to an API-Specification Project as a Dependency", which is linked to from the *See also* section at the end of this topic.

* *Simulate calls to your API* 
+

> Even while you are drafting a REST API specification, you can simulate calls to endpoints for which you have specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you draft a REST API specification, you can simulate calls to the specified endpoints.
```
